How to rid your sinus and lung mucus with salt.This is literally a $2.00 here.And salt might be the missing weapon that your sinuses are begging for. Using simple salt is one of the best things that you can use, but you need to understand what type of salt because if you use the wrong one, it can actually burn the sinuses. So the first thing you need to know is that mucus is not the problem. It's the strategy. And a lot of people that have sinus issues, they have inflammation for sure. But usually it's not a deep infection. And when you have something that is incorrectly diagnosed and you treat it with medication, you actually suppress the symptoms deeper and they hang around a lot longer. Your body deploys mucus as a trap to engulf the bacteria or engulf the mold or the particles that might be irritating the upper respiratory tract. Now this is really in immune reaction. And there might be microbes involved. There also could be a fungal infection involved or even a mold infection or even a viral infection. So don't write off the bat as soon. It's an infection that you need to treat with antibiotics. And the reason for that is that antibiotics only work on bacteria. Not unmold, not on fungus. And when you take it in about it for bacteria, it kills off the good bacteria, which is there to keep the fungus in check. And this is why a lot of times people will have an overgrowth of a fungal infection after they have this antibiotics. Deep inside of your sonases, you have these little tiny hairs that are called cilia. And right underneath these hairs, you have mucus membranes that are probably swollen if you have mucus. And the purpose of the mucus is to help clean out the cilia of any type of debris or microbial pathogen that's in there. So you can kind of look at it like a conveyor belt. That's pulling stuff out of your lungs and it's trying to clean things up. And when you're about to detect a foreign invader, it's going to increase the sink called histimines, which is going to create more mucus. That's a normal defense mechanism. You actually want that to happen. Many times people mistakenly do some type of a suppressant to mucus. And it pushes it deeper into the tissues instead of pulling it out. So I just really want you to understand what's happening so you can do the right thing. And it's usually something not to worry about. And I'm going to show you a really good remedy for this. So just hang in there. And a lot of times when you have mucus, it's a good thing. Your body gets rid of whatever's in there. And then it goes away. But sometimes it persists because it becomes too sticky or clogs things up. And now the silly can not move. And everything is kind of stuck deep inside. And then here the person is having a chronic sinus problem, which affects your sleep, can cause sleep apnea and breathing problems. Because now you could really only breathe through your mouth when you're sleeping, which is the pain in the butt. Salt creates what's called an osmotic shift. What does that mean? It means that it's pulling water out of something. And how does it do it through dehydration? Because remember that osmotic effect, it sucks the water out of these microbes. So what it does to the bacteria and fungus and mold is it sucks the water out, making that microbe dehydrated. It's dead. Okay. What it does to the mucus is it actually takes the water out. So then everything is thinner and it can actually move out of our bodies a lot easier. The second thing that salt does is it directly destroys bacteria, mold, yeast, and fungus. And the third thing that salt does in addition to taking the water out of the mucus, it actually has something called a mucus-lytic effect, which basically thins the mucus. It breaks it down, not necessarily just by pulling the water out, but just by thinning the mucus directly. And this is why simple sea salt is one of the best things to remove mucus for the body. Now, one of the really interesting things about this mucus is it's super common to have it react to mold some mold growing in your house. So you really need to get that check, that your basement, maybe there was a recent leak in your house with water and you have mold in there. And that realized that is one of the root causes of your son's problem. So here you are doing the salt flesh and keeps coming back, because the root cause needs to be identified. Sometimes it also can be histamines and foods. And I'm going to put a link down below for more information about that. But the other one really important part of this puzzle is vitamin D. Vitamin D is one of the most important nutrients to support the immune system, especially if you're predisposed to mold or you're predisposed to having sinus infections or lung infections. And because people don't get enough sun, especially during the winter, this is why they have more problems in the winter with their son's, than during the summer. One last thing about food, a lot of times just eliminating dairy. So many people have a sensitivity to dairy that that can create more mucus. So you also might want to look at that as being an issue. If you have a sinus problem that's chronic, okay, suspect a fungal infection, the salt's going to help with that. If you have more of a sinus problem during the winter, suspect more of a vitamin D deficiency. And the amount of vitamin D that you really need is about 50,000 I use per day, get your vitamin D with K2 and add magnesium. So it can work a little bit better. But I would take your vitamin D closer to the evening. So when you go to bed at night, it can work all night long. All right. So now let's talk about how we're going to use a salt as a rinse. There's a couple different ways you can do this. There's a thing called a netty pot where you're putting warm water in there. And you can dissolve like a half a teaspoon of Himalayan sea salt. That's the one I'm going to recommend. I'm not going to recommend cable salt because cable salt many times has additives use a really high quality Himalayan sea salt. I'm going to show you this clip of how to do the netty pot. Right here, check it out. Measure out one cup of the distilled water. So I get a little saucepan, turn to high, but my netty pot water in there, my distilled water in there. And it only takes a minute or two to get it nice and warm. You want to warm about like a backwater kind of temperature. Just so it's comfortable for you now. It's not too cold, not too hot, but just right. As you can see, I use my finger to check and see if it's ready. So make sure your hands are clean if you're doing this and obviously do it carefully. Next, I will scoop out one breath of a teaspoon of the netty pot salt placed into the measuring cup and then pour the warm water into the measuring cup. I find that this helps mix the salt into the water. It'll faster. I'll then pour half of that solution into the netty pot and I'm ready to go. So to set yourself up, you're going to tilt your head to the opposite side. You're going to put the netty pot into your nostril and then lift your elbow up. As you can see, it kind of creates an incline from my elbow all the way down as in the water's coming out. And you're just going to let it flow. That's kind of my catchphrase. You want to keep your mouth open so you can breathe while you're doing the netty pot. And you just try to relax into it. Once you've allowed all the water to empty out, you're going to give it a good blow. And I use a cloth netting also to just kind of get the extra out and you're onto the next side. So basically transfer the last half cup of water into the netty pot and all the same steps. We're going to tilt our head, place the netty pot, enter nostril, lift your elbow up, make that incline and let it flow once again. Okay, another little addition that I highly recommend if this is a big problem, where it's chronic or it's more severe is to take a cutiep and put a little garlic oil. Like I'm just talking a few drops on the cutiep and go inside each nostril and just spread it to create a powerful anti-pathogenic effect. Garlic is hands down. We're the best anti-viral, anti-fungal, anti- yeast, anti-mold. It's considered like a natural antibiotic. The third thing you can do is just get a pot of water. Okay, and in the water you dissolve some salt. I might recommend just like one tablespoon of sea salt and dissolve it in there and let the steam come up to your sonuses with the towel over your head and just breathe the steam inside the sonose slowly and let it out. You'll have these iron particles in the air from the salty water. It'll get in there and it'll start to break down the mucus. There's many other ways you can do this. There's a salt diffuser you can buy. I think the name for that is called an halogenerator, but that's more expensive and it's really not needed. That's an option. Another couple things I would highly recommend that you drink and consume are apple cider vinegar three times a day, not straight, but just take a tablespoon in some water. Okay, drink it down three times a day. This is going to satisfy the body. This stimulates the macrophages, the immune system, and helps to remove mucus. That's one tablespoon in a glass of water before meals or just three times a day. Don't forget to inspect your house for mold. There's different home tests that you can do. Especially if you haven't cleaned your vents in many, many years. Okay, because that could be a hidden source of a lot of pathogens. The other thing on how to recommend is you want to cut out all sugar and starch because guess what? Fungus and mold love refined carbohydrates. So cut that off and then you won't be continuing to feed these macrophages. And I would also recommend avoiding any dairy as well. All right, now that you have the remedy for your sonesis, I have a free download that I want to give to you. This free download is my daily routine in the checklist. This is the routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old, even now I'm six years old, and I want to give it to you for free. And so there's a little link down below. Click it and definitely download that. In sensor on the topic of sonesis, I have another video for you that I highly recommend you watch to get all the information on how to deal with not just mucus in your sonness, but in your lungs as well. And I put that video right up here, check it out.