我常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常常所以那 includes you, you need to a little more information unlike what this nutrient does and where to get it. Let's start with the nutrient number one, vitamin A. It's one of the more important vitamins for your immune system, especially for lung infections. Vitamin A helps you make antibodies. Now what's an antibody? It's something that helps tag a bad guy in your body, like a pathogen. And it helps the other parts of your immune system, no, who's the bad guy versus the good guy. So we don't want to tag the wrong cell, right? So the antibody is all about tagging someone. So it would be like a bounty hunter that's going out to find some criminal. They may not do the punishment, right? Put them in jail, but they help find the criminal. That's what your antibodies do. I mean, think about what a job that is. You have so many cells, the body is huge. And these antibodies are going around scanning, looking for these pathogens. And somehow they can identify them and then they can tag them. And then they then communicate to the rest of the immune system to kill. So that's what your immune system does. And without enough vitamin A, your ability to produce antibodies and tag pathogens are greatly reduced. So now your body has a lesson ability to recognize the bad guys. And there's something else. Vitamin A helps your immune system coordinate this attack. Because it increases this very specific T cell called a T helper cell. That's all about coordination. I guess it'd be equivalent to symphony orchestrator, which is out there coordinating the various musicians and their instruments. If you didn't have that person, it would all be chaos. So the T helper cell does a lot of coordination in this attack. So without vitamin A, you can't tag the bad guy. And then you can't coordinate this attack with your army. Now where do you get vitamin A? A good source would be grass fed butter. You can also get it from other things too. Like egg yolks, liver. But I would not count on getting your vitamin A from plant foods because that mainly is going to be beta-carotene. That has to convert into the active form of vitamin A, which is retinal. And for most people, it's not going to happen. So more butter through the winter, more butter to support your immune system. All right, the next vitamin, which you may not connect the dots between this nutrient and your immune system, is vitamin E. Now vitamin E is a very potent antioxidant that protects the lipid membranes. Okay, so all your cells have a little fat layer. It's a membrane. And it's made from lipids. And by the many protects that membrane from being damaged by your immune system and many other things. I mean, think about what's happening. You have this immune system, which is your army that's going to fight these pathogens, right? So they're going to use weapons. One weapon to use is hydrogen peroxide. If you ever put hydrogen peroxide on an open room, you see it all physing and it starts to oxidize and it starts to create this reaction. Well, I think about what that will do to a pathogen. It literally kills pathogens, right? Well, all this is happening inside your body. So you're getting exposure to hydrogen peroxide and many other weapons from your immune system. So vitamin E is there to protect against all this collateral damage. And if you didn't have enough vitamin E, what you'd have a lot of damage that's occurring from your immune system that is unnecessary. This is also another problem with people taking like chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Yes, it kills the cancer. But it also kills off the immune system, right? If you have to take chemo or radiation therapy for cancer, I would highly recommend also at the same time doing things like vitamin E, taking other nutrients to protect you against all this collateral damage. And just as a side note, one thing you could do to protect yourselves against the damage from chemotherapy and radiation therapy is fasting, prolonged fasting. Your cells will automatically become stronger and live longer if you're fasting. And at the same time, you have to do the chemo and radiation therapy. So vitamin E protects against the collateral damage. That's one thing it does. All the weapon tree and the ammunition that's sent off by your immune system, it can actually be mitigated or calm down or suppressed by vitamin E. Also, without enough vitamin E, the ability of your T cells and other things called the phagosize that actually eat up pathogens just are less strong. So that's about a mini-descent. And guess where you can get vitamin E from better? OK, you can also get it from leafy greens. You can also get it from nuts in egg yolks because it's a fat soluble vitamin. The next most important vitamin, which is probably the most important vitamin is vitamin D, I've done lots of videos about vitamin D, on the importance of what it can do to your immune system. I mean, just across the board, it influences every single part of your immune system. But one of the most important things that vitamin D will do is it helps to curb or calm down an overactive immune system. So if your immune system is a little too enthusiastic, and it's like going in hyper mode and you have too much inflammation, vitamin D can come in there and chill it out. So any condition that you have that involves too much inflammation, especially chronic inflammation, like chronic arthritis, autoimmune, or even the cytokine storm involved in infection, vitamin E can come in there and just turn that thing right off. It can also lessen the duration of infection, one of the most amazing things that does is it just puts out the fire, OK? But you need a lot of it. You need not just 600 eye use. You need about 10, 20, 30,000 eye use if you're going through an infection. And guess where you can get vitamin D? You can get it from better. You can get it from cold, the vertwheel. You can get it from the sun, but not during the winter. So many people just take it as a supplement, but it's a very important nutrient and you should know more about that because most people are deficient in vitamin D. The next most important about them is vitamin C. You can get a lot of it from raw, sour crowd, not pastoral, sour crowd, but raw. You get like 700 milligrams. That's 10 times what you really need in one cup of raw sour crowd, incredible. But vitamin C is one of those vitamins that helps to increase your resistance and lowers your susceptibility to getting a pathogen. But because it's an antioxidant, it also can lower the collateral damage, just like vitamin E will do. But vitamin E protects the fat layered membranes vitamin C helps other things in your body from getting damage. So if there's a lot of oxidation, ferradical damage, inflammation, vitamin C protects the tissues against all this collateral damage from your own immune system. And a lot of times when you feel sick or you feel left-hargic or you feel tired or you have a fever or you have any negative reaction when you get sick, it's this collateral damage that's causing it. So vitamin C can help culling that up and make you feel better as you go in through the infection. The same thing was vitamin E. But the other thing that vitamin C will do is it increases neutrophils. Nutrophils really do three things. Okay, they eat pathogens for lunch, right? They eat viruses, bacteria, parasites, yeast, fungus, mold. That's one thing. They also will release weaponry like microbial agents that kill microbes. So it's kind of like they have this shotgun that they can use against microbes. And the third thing they do, it's pretty cool. They actually throw a net over the pathogens and contain the pathogen. So they can then inject certain chemicals to dissolve and kill the pathogen. They're like a little spider that can throw the net over the pathogen. So those are the three ways that neutrophils work and they are dependent on vitamin C. And again, you can get vitamin C from Southrop but you can get it from all the leafy greens. Even you can get some vitamin C from grass-fed grass-finished beef, believe or not, as well as grass-fed grass-finished liver. The next most important nutrient that you need to know about is zinc. You probably already know that, but zinc has involved in several hundred enzymes. Okay, without zinc, a lot of things can't work in your body. But one of the most important interesting things that zinc will do to your immune system is to allow the thymus to do its job. The thymus makes t cells. It's like a training camp for your immune system. And it's dependent on zinc. Without zinc, the thymus actually shrinks way down. It can't work right. Zinc allows the training of your immune system. So without enough zinc, your t cells get suppressed. So they can't go to battle. They can't fight. The weapons that they are supposed to have are limited. And the ammo that is released is suppressed. So you're basically cutting down your army without having enough zinc. And there's a lot of people that don't have enough zinc, primarily because we're eating a lot of refined grains with fightates that are blocking the zinc, blisterials, breads, pasta, cereal, crackers, things like that, whole grains. And you can get zinc from shellfish, like oysters. You can also get zinc from other things, like eggs, red meat, as loaded with zinc, there was an interesting study in mice, okay? Where they had one group that was deprived of zinc. And the other group was fed enough zinc. And both groups were exposed to a deadly parasite. And in the group that was zinc deficient, there is an 80% mortality rate, 80% of these mice died. The zinc deficient group. And in the other group, only 10% of the mice died. And this was the group that had enough zinc. It tells us that zinc is very important in surviving infections, okay? And number one, and having an immune system to protect us against these pathogens. No matter if it's virus, parasite, bacteria. The next nutrient I'm going to talk about is selenium. Selenium is a trace mineral to help you make glutathione, which is another antioxidant, which protects the body from free-requaled damage, oxidation. It protects the lipids as well. And it also protects against inflammation, okay? All that collateral damage. And if you're deficient in selenium, your immune system is no longer as potent as it should be. It has a more difficult time fighting pathogens. And it also has a difficult time protecting the normal tissues from all the collateral damage. There is another study, a mice, that had a group that was deficient in selenium. And compared that to a group that had enough selenium. And they were both exposed to a parasite, not the same parasite, but a different parasite. And in the group that was selenium deficient, okay? They all suffered multiple organ failure, okay? As compared to the group that had sufficient selenium. So that would be just another example. Even though the studies weren't done on humans, I think it's something to look at. It's something to appreciate. And the problem with doing human studies is that who's going to volunteer for this study? Not me. So where can you get selenium? See food and Brazil nuts. And the last nutrient I want to comment on is copper. Copper works with zinc. I haven't talked a lot about copper, but copper is very important for your immune system as well. If you don't have enough copper, you're more susceptible to getting infections, okay? Copper also works with selenium. In making certain enzymes to protect against collateral damage, because it can act as an antioxidant. But it's also directly involved in immune system function. And specifically in recruiting help with other parts of the immune system. So if you don't have enough copper, yourselves won't be coordinated enough to recruit for help to have the full capacity of your immune system at the barrier that you're defending from. And copper can be gotten from shellfish, seafood, and beef meats. It's an egg. It's an allotted infirm foods. Now I've recently did a very interesting video on what vitamin D does to your immune system. It's a little bit more in depth. And you really need to watch that. Because once you watch that, you'll have the complete knowledge of vitamin D in this relationship to bulletproofing yourself. Against pathogens. And I put that video up right here, check it out.