大家可以評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評評那麼 divisions divisions可以利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利利從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從 divisions divisions divisions從 divisions divisions divisions從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從此你從此從此你可以從從 divisions divisions從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從從 divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions你可以 divisions divisions可以可以 divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisionsBut if you just have slight variations, tiny variations in that temperature And it gets triggered And then you have this caskata effect of a hot flash And other symptoms And there are several things that can trigger it Temperature, blood sugar, divisions So there is a lot of different triggers And that can divisions thermostat It divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions這則是可以利用的 divisions divisions而且你從頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭頭那麼 divisions那麼 divisions divisions那麼你的 thermostat gets triggered more easilyBut also prediabetes或者 type 2 divisions或者 divisions或者 divisions或者 divisions或者 divisions那麼大家可以 divisions或者 divisions或者 divisions那麼大家可以 divisions那麼大家可以 divisions那麼大家可以 divisions那麼大家可以 divisions我 was looking at different cultures and I wanted to see if certain cultures have more half-lashes than others and this popped out 80 to 91% of African American women that are going through menopause can have flashes. Now that was really interesting to me because that stood out as a huge clue because if you do a comparison in other cultures it's not even close to that. I mean up to 91% so then I started looking at why that could be and then I found this. People that have low vitamin D levels, their vitamin D deficient, have a much higher risk of getting hot flashes. The color of someone's skin does influence their ability to get vitamin D. So melanin is a pigment in the skin that acts as a natural sunblock. And so the darker your skin the less UV you're going to get to make vitamin D. And especially in America there's a direct correlation in skin color and the amount of vitamin D that someone gets. So now let's dive in a little deeper and start connecting the dots with all the things I just mentioned. Okay, let's take a look at estrogen first. During menopause we get a major decrease in estrogen. Now what's the relationship between estrogen and some of these other things I've talked about? Number one, estrogen is very important in protecting a cell in the body called the beta cell. That's in the pancreas. The beta cell is all about helping you regulate blood sugars and controlling insulin. And diabetes occurs because of damage to that beta cell. So that was very, very interesting. estrogen helps keep insulin sensitive. So in other words, if you're talking about insulin resistance, which by the way is a root cause behind so many different chronic diseases. diabetes type 2, obesity, if I deliver high triglycerides, et cetera. And estrogen has a huge purpose to help keep insulin sensitive. And when you lose estrogen, now you're going to lose insulin sensitivity. What's going to happen to your blood sugar up and down? What is that going to do to your weight if you now have insulin resistance? Now that's just going to worsen the whole thing. estrogen also has a purpose of controlling inflammation. And one of the things that really creates a narrow spectrum of this thermostat in your hypothalamus is inflammation. So anything that reduces inflammation will improve menopausal symptoms. Also estrogen regulates the amount of sugar that is produced by the liver. Let me explain, in a diabetic, the liver is so insulin resistant that it doesn't work anymore. So the insulin doesn't really go into the liver to work and let sugar be done when there. So the signal is, or starving of sugar. So then the liver starts to making sugar like crazy. And even in a diabetic, 80% of their blood sugar is actually being produced by the liver and only a smaller percent comes from the diet. So that term is called gluconeogenesis. But production of new sugar by your liver. And that's influenced greatly by estrogen. So when the estrogen goes down, your blood sugar is going to go down. You're going to have a problem with insulin. And that right out the bat, we'll start explaining visceral fat, weight gain, that set point problem that you just can't get your weight pass to certain level. Because I've talked about that in other videos, you have to correct insulin resistance if you really want to bring that weight down any further. Now let's get into the interesting information, vitamin D. I had no idea until recently that estrogen has a huge influence over vitamin D. In the activation of vitamin D, in the blood, you have an inactive version of vitamin D. It's not really doing anything. It has to be converted in the kidney. And that conversion needs help for the estrogen. Okay? Now only that. The vitamin D receptor in your cells requires a good amount of estrogen to be able to work. And even if it does get activated, it's not going to penetrate through the receptor too much because estrogen is down. I mean, just think about the importance of vitamin D for pretty much everything I already mentioned. There's even an enzyme that you have in your drainals and in your fat that helps you make estrogen from testosterone because you no longer can get the benefit of the ovary now you're dependent on your estrogen from adrenal and your fat cells and also the enzyme that converts it but not unless you have enough vitamin D. Wow, that's interesting. So basically, vitamin D in estrogen are bi-directional. They both influence each other. If you don't have enough estrogen, then you're not going to have enough vitamin D. If you don't have enough vitamin D, you're not going to be able to produce as much estrogen which is a double-edged sword. So you need both of these things. Also, when you're vitamin D deficient, you're going to have less temperature control. There is a hormone around your thyroid called the parat thyroid hormone. And that hormone kind of acts as a plan B to provide a medit. It's like a backup to vitamin D. So if you don't have enough vitamin D, that goes up and what it's going to do it's going to start to mobilize calcium from your bone. This is why the bone loss after menopause when I was in practice, I would have women coming in and they go through menopause and all of a sudden they have osteopemia and osteoporosis like within weeks. That's because of this high parat thyroid hormone. This can be brought down if you get enough vitamin D. The problem is, most doctors are operating off of this outdated information that we only need 600 to 800, I used vitamin D3, which is completely false because if you take a look at all the other important things of vitamin D does immune system, helping with the estrogen, helping with your muscles, etc. etc. For that other system, you need between 6000 to 8000 to even 10,000 I use every single day just to maintain that system. And I'm not even talking about creating a therapeutic effect by using more or inflammatory conditions like autoimmune. I'm just talking about maintaining things. So if you're operating off of this outdated information that you will need a tiny amount and it's okay to have 20 nanograms per milliliter of vitamin D in your blood. That's normal. Then you are going to be in a heap of trouble because you're not going to have enough vitamin D for all of this to work. Compound of the fact that estrogen is so low you're barely getting any vitamin D. And then of course the parat thyroid hormone is going to spike up and start robbing all this calcium out. So do you see the problem now? You can't go into this having a fixed idea. You have to be very open to looking at all the different viewpoints and also to have a different view point of lifestyle changes because insulin sensitivity or insulin resistance has everything to do with your diet. And unfortunately that's something that's not going to be brought up when you visit your doctor and the same thing with vitamin D. They're not going to really talk about that. They're going to be more focused on treating all of your symptoms. So what can we do? What is the plan? The most important thing for menopausal symptoms is to fix insulin resistance. Now, are you going to start increasing estrogen and start taking that? The problem with that is there's too many side effects. Why can't we just improve insulin resistance and see if that doesn't help a lot of the symptoms that you have related to this? Because it is normal to have a dip in estrogen we're just trying to bring it up enough where you don't have any more problems. So fixing insulin resistance is going to be super important. How do you do that? I'm going to put the link down below. You're going to have to cut down your carbs. You're going to have to do intermittent fasting. There's a couple of things to do as well. Nutrition wise. But this is doable. You can reverse insulin resistance in a very short period of time just with diet. Number two, vitamin D3. I wouldn't just take 10,000 I use. I would highly recommend you do 20,000 I use every single day. Now, you say, oh my gosh, that's a lot. Well, that's literally 40 minutes in the sun. But you're going to need to bypass all these other barriers that are going on to get enough vitamin D to then help estrogen work better. And also, vitamin D can greatly help your insulin problem as well. I would also recommend taking magnesium with that. And vitamin K2, magnesium is another thing that can help reduce cortisol. It'll help you sleep. It can actually help a lot of things related to menopause that I didn't actually cover. But vitamin D is going to be the most important. But definitely take magnesium with it. The next thing is this. As you're fixing a root cause problem, we need to give you some relief right away. But some people don't want to take the drugs because they have side effects. Is there some type of drug mimicry that you could take that doesn't have the amount of side effects? And yes, there is. NK3R Agonist is a certain drug that they use for certain menopausal symptoms. And if you looked up the natural version of that, there's several things that may help you or things that you might want to try. Soy isopflavones. Typically, I don't recommend soy, but in these situations, a little bit of this could help you. Resveretrol is another option. Black Kohosh is a very popular antidote to hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms. Red Clover is another one. Number four is light and dark. Remember, I told you the specific part of the hypothalamus is very sensitive to light and the circadian waves. You can improve your menopausal symptoms by aligning yourself with light and dark cycles. So in the morning, if you can go outside when the sun is rising, for 20 minutes, get that sun. It'd be awesome. If you can't do that, get one of the full spectrum lights that they have, more of a therapeutic light. And you put that up for a half an hour in the morning. Next to your computer, so you can get that light. And that way, you can start to influence this circadian effect inside your brain. And then at night, when it starts to get dark, if you're watching TV, like one or two hours before bed, you get the little blue blockers. And that way, we can simulate more of the darkness. And of course, turn the lights down around you. That'd be very, very important to help reset that hypothalamus. Some people get a lot of benefit with some of the bigger symptoms with menopause by progesterone cream. So that's another thing to look at. Astrogen goes down, but progesterone really takes a lot more than Astrogen. So that ratio is going to be important. Some women that have problems sleeping at night might need to take melatonin. Normal, I don't recommend it. But if you've tried all these other things, and it hasn't worked, getting to bed at the right time and being able to sleep is like the most important thing. And if you compare melatonin with the drug, this has virtually almost zero side effects. And we're just taking three milligrams, maybe that might actually help you. I have all the biomarkers that seem to go really, really, really high after menopause. Loop-nizing hormone, LH, is the one that really, sometimes you can go up at 1,000%. That can make menopause miserable for you, especially high flashes. So there is something to lower that melatonin. Interesting. You can also get melatonin from just being out in the sun because when you're out in the sun, over 50% of the rays are infrared, infrared triggers melatonin to be made inside yourself. So that's another thing to help you. And number seven, if you've tried everything and just nothing's working, you might want to get your testosterone tested by a competent doctor that really knows about doing the testosterone pellets. And the only reason I'm bringing it up is because the amount of plastics in the environment are so high, both men and women, their testosterone is like crashing to such low numbers. But don't be deceived with their normal range of testosterone because they're taking an average of the population and that's your normal. So you're comparing your hormones with everyone else's hormones, which is not a good comparison. They're not comparing your hormones with someone 20, 30 years ago. They don't do that, which is interesting. But testosterone pellets by a competent physician could be beneficial for some women. The thing you need to know is that testosterone is like a mother hormone that turns into estrogen. So this could be one way to bring this up just enough to satisfy the insulin sensitivity issue to help you absorb and more of it and indeed at the receptor level to convert more inactivity to the active vitamin D and to lessen the amount of the symptoms that occur because of the inflammation that's created. I think the most important thing right now is to really learn about how to fix this insulin resistance problem. And for that, I've put this video right here, check it out.