做了一切點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點點我 knows what makes me so special about an onion, that can help your hair. It's loaded with sulfur. The sulfur is not necessarily related to hair loss, but it is related to the raw material that can help build the main protein in hair, which is called carotain. It's carotain is sulfur based. Ian's had the highest amount of corset tin. Corset tin is going to help your hair. One of the biggest things that corset tin does is it helps suppress this autoimmune attack T cell situation.Fear hair loss is alopecia where you have these patches of hair coming out it can help you. And top of everything, course it helps increase the growth hormones of the hair follicle, which is right at the root of the hair itself. And then top of all of that, course it is a powerful anti-microbial protecting your scalp against overgrowth of yeast, fungus, mold. And if you also have dandruff or some other problems going on in the scalp, that can help you as well. Let me simply tell you how to do it. And then I'm going to get into some a few little tweaks to this recipe to take it to the next level. This whole recipe is based on an organic red onion, because red has the most course it's in. Take one onion, chop it into small pieces, put it into the blender and blend it down. Then you're going to take the blended slurry and put it through a cheesecloth. So you can separate out the liquid into a container. Now it would be good if you had some type of squeeze bottle that you can put it into, but you don't really need that. All you need is a little container, maybe a mason jar. Then the next thing you're going to do when you go into the shower, is you're going to get your hair wet. And then you're going to take this liquid and you're going to start to massage it into your hair of the actual roots as well. For a couple minutes. Once you get it massage into the hair, you will then come out of the shower, dry your body off, and then leave this mixture in your hair for about 30 minutes. But I would personally recommend to leave it in your hair for one hour. And you could probably just use a shower cap as well. Then what you're going to do is go back into the shower, rinse it off, shampoo your hair actually twice to remove any odor that you might not like. You're going to just do that twice a week. Okay, for about four to six weeks. Now as far as hair growth, you should start noticing some hair growth after week three or four. Now let's take your results in the next level. There's two things that you can try. The first one is going to be pretty cool, but the second one is going to be even cooler. But simply just adding something to the onion juice. You're going to be adding five drops of rosemary oil. What is so special about rosemary oil? Well, in a randomized trial in 2015, they compared rosemary oil to one of the top medications for LAPIHA. And they found rosemary by itself was as effective as this medication rosemary oil has several phytonutrients that are anti-inflammatory, are anti-oxidant that's stability to scalp in a way that increases blood flow. And it's great for autoimmune issues. The onion juice by itself has been shown to be pretty effective. So in a study in the journal of dermatology, they split this group in half and half of the group did onion juice on their hair. And the other half just did water. And just within six weeks, the group that used the onion juice had an 86.9% result. And when I talk about results, I'm talking about significant hair we growth. Compared to the other group, which just used water, only had a 13% result. Now, there was another study on mice. The group that used the corsetin, and they actually did separate out just the corsetin from the onion, showed regeneration of the hair in all of the treated groups. And on the untreated groups, there was no reggrowth of hair. So now let's supercharge this recipe and take it to the next level. Basically, they're going to enhance the onion juice. Now, how do you do that? You're going to ferment it. You're going to take one onion, you're going to take the peel off. You're going to chop it up. You put it in the blender, strain out the pulp. And then take that slurry and put it into a Mason jar. And then you're going to add a eight ounce cup of water. And then you're going to take a teaspoon of sea salt. Then you're going to add half a teaspoon of raw honey. Mix it up really good. Put a cheese cloth over the Mason jar or even a coffee filter. Then you're going to put it on your counter. So it can ferment for 72 hours. And you're going to notice within the second day as these little tiny CO2 bubbles, carbon dioxide bubbles popping up. What you're doing is you're enhancing the course attend. The nutrition that's in there is also going to be enhanced, because the microbes are going to actually make more vitamins. So basically, we're taking this antidote to hair loss, onion juice, and we're magnifying it. And also the pH of the onion juice is going to be becoming more acidic to about five, which is going to be very therapeutic to your scalp. Now, at this point, you want cheese cloth. OK. So you can separate out the liquid and put it in that squeeze bottle. And then apply to your hair just like I have already talked about, which is getting your hair wet. And then massaging it into your scalp for a few minutes. And then coming out of the shower waiting for one hour with the shower cap, if you want, then you're going to go back in the shower, rinse out your hair very thoroughly and shampoo your hair twice. And I would recommend doing this twice a week for six weeks, or even longer, depending on your situation, a couple other key things to note. There's so many different mechanisms involved with vitamin D, in hair growth or loss of hair that you should be taking at least 10,000 or 20,000. I use a vitamin D3 every day or get a good amount of sun. And the only other thing you need to have attention on is to make sure you're eating the right foods to support the nutrients for your hair. And if you haven't seen this video on that topic, I'll put it up right here. Check it out. I'd be free to leave. I just wanted to give you a little quick history on some of the books that I wrote. This was one of the first books that called Dr. Berg Body Shapes. It was my attempt at writing about body types. What was very interesting about this book is I actually did all the images myself. Don't ask me why. They look actually not quite as professional as some of the images that I have in the new book. But anyway, this is my first attempt right here called Dr. Berg's Body Shaped Diet. Then I wrote a book more extensive called The Seven Principles of Fapering. I don't even have a copy anymore, actually, because it's outdated. The next book I put about 1,000 hours into this one right here called The New Body Type Guide. Major updates on the body types. I put a lot of energy into this. It has professional images, graphics, all sorts of things. Now the problem with this book is it doesn't really describe what this is really about. Body types are only a small portion of what's in this book. And that's why I changed the name to the Healthy Keto Plan. If you happen to have this book, you don't really need this book. Because there's only very, very minor updates. But if you don't have this, you need to get this one right here. This book goes into every single detail that you would ever want to know about. It goes into the Seven Principles of Fapering. It goes into hormones, the body types, the basic Keto Plan. It goes into the intermittent fasting. I talk about the 10 fat burning triggers and blockers and fat burning strategies. With a lot of details in every single chapter. I go into body issues that interfere with losing weight. There's very few people that just have a way problem. They have a lot of body issues, whether it's sleeping problems, stress problems, inflammation, menopause. I cover that extensively in this book. Then I talk about how to get rid of stress. And I show you a technique. Then I get into exercising. And then I have a lot of really good recipes in this book as well. So this is a good reference guide. On my website, if you get this book, you get this one free. It's called Healthy Keto and Imminent Fasting. This is the shortcut, a quick guide to this book. And the reason I created this book is to have you within 45 minutes, learn how to do Keto in intermittent fasting. Exactly what you need to do. Then you can fill in the blanks with this book right here. So right now, I'm doing a special. If you get this book, you get this one totally free. Or you can go to Amazon and get these individually. So I just want to clarify the difference between this book. And this updated one right here. If you don't have this, you need to get this right here. That way, you can get the exact correct information to do it healthily.