今天我們就動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動動感動不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同你在旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅是否有不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在你在不同的所以,想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想想你在旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅行上旅你在不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同不同外面的and that that that that that is what drives all these gene functions and all these tissues So so the one when you go to the doctor and get your blood test you're looking at not the active form it's an inactive form that can stay around in the blood for a couple of several weeks gets to yes it's to call it to reservoir okay it's the reservoir of vitamin D that's being measured got it and then it turns into the active form or a certain amount will turn into the active form but then how does that relate to these two different systems? Well so the intermediate form the reservoir form can turn into the active form in the kidney that's highly regulated and that's what made that's what regulates blood calcium okay that intermediate form can also go into any cell in the body okay and be turned into the active form and function in that given cell whether it be a cancer cell to stop cancer from progressing or immune cells to make them function in an appropriate fashion and also the problem with that intermediate form is it's not very accessible to these cells it can it's it's it's bound to this protein it keeps it out that's why it lasts in the blood cell so the the parent compound the one that you take in the supplement turns out it's really important because that form can get into any of these cells and be activated all the way down the tree into the active form the problem is that's what disappears within a day so it needs to be replenished every day to have the full function of the vitamin present it's very it's complicated that's why a lot of physicians don't pay attention to this or scientists as well so this this this is kind of what I want to get into this this point that you just mentioned because you have the different types and then when people get their blood tested they're assuming that there's one system oh I have enough in the blood so everything's going to be satisfied but that's not necessarily true no that's true and because of the form is being measured while it's important to okay it's the reservoir more important for maintenance of blood calcium and skeleton but for the other functions the only way that you can you can you can be sure that you have adequate amounts is basically take it every day either orally or getting a son every day in a quartets really not feasible for a lot of reasons so the oral consumption of vitamin D on a daily or an animal on a weekly basis is important because that's the that's the the base the base form and that form comes and goes very quickly wow so this is a do with like half life and breaking down some of it goes down quick some stays in there so now I've and one of your videos you meant you went through a bunch of studies and you showed people step by step like a number of studies that were that failed that showed no response with vitamin D and you correlated that with well that's because they they only let people take it once a week or once a month versus yeah even then one study on skeleton where they took it once a year like a million units once a year and then they said well this didn't work out very well and that continues to be cited in some facts is beautiful city I oh my gosh if someone takes a million I use about a minute just one time I think after after a day it goes down to half and then the day later it goes down to a quarter right it just kind of breaks down and goes away or it just becomes yeah it'll boost the intermediate form for a while but it's very is more bli efficient of way of doing it and it becomes more so if you do it once a day it's efficient once a week it's less efficient once a month even less efficient so yeah so wow as far as the the research on this what about you know you have all these most of the researchers out there they kind of look at cow vitamin D just just related to bone and calcium they're they're kind of just almost pretending like this other system doesn't exist is that true yeah basically yes I mean first you have to accept the fact that vitamin D has photos beyond calcium and I mean the data are all over but what what ends up happening is things are run like the vital trial yeah where they they give two little vitamin D they give it to people who in a randomized trial who who don't need it you know that's like in the the town's newsletter I mentioned to you when I was discussing it with the author of that paper so the gold standard for all drug trucks or randomized controlled trials okay where say you have a cholesterol drug and you want to test if it truly will to press serum plus drugs you take it so the drug company the symbols uh the symbols of population of people and they administer half of those people the drug and half of those people get placebo and then they they uh analyze the data and look at it or of course they it's in most cases it's successful and this is how drug trials are run but the drug that you're giving those people the body has never seen it they don't have a base level of it unlike nutrients not just vitamin D but any nutrient trial okay it's impossible in this country to do a true randomized trial because the population you're dealing with has some some people have very little some people have plenty but when you if you just take in their random and and it randomized I mean give these people half of them a level of vitamin D often times not even in the loft and this other half only get the placebo or in implacible in this country means they have to get the standard daily dose so they're not even getting through it and what happens is is that it's a horribly compromised study so that's what vital in all these happens is that and the other thing is when you when you've ended and you do your data analysis wouldn't you think that you might take the base level into effect when you do the analysis of the data well that's illegal you can't do that that violates the intent to treat model okay and it absolutely ensures that your trial is going to fail so I'll give you some examples in i'd work primarily pregnancy we did pregnancy studies and found out that vitamin D decrease complications of birth and but the best trials are actually done overseas and the best one couple were done in action in Iran and where the population is generally vitamin D deficient across the board and they have a fairly large patient population half of those women got a substantial dose of vitamin D and half of those people got nothing which is how you can't run a trial like that in the US because you'd be violating standard of care but that's truly how vitamin D trial should be run and in those trials you sought tremendous effects on decrease in birth complications like preterm birth and tree accliancia and diabetes and everything else fell into the treatment if you do the same trial in the US you you can't do it where our nutrition is better people have better vitamin D's levels but when you randomize them like I said everybody has some and so it's not like you're giving a drug that had none and when when you look at the results it's totally bored and it's even you know you can I you can overcome that to some degree when one of the statistics would take their the basal level of ponds study entry into effect and then you analyze it like that you can see if that's in that in fact that's why observational studies you know when they have these big groups of people and they look at vitamin D levels outcomes of the acute cancer of the pregnancy and things and it's based on a lifestyle and and uniformly those studies and there's thousands of them would show really big effects of vitamin D but then when you went to do these randomized trials and you have all these complications and you can't adjust for the base level all of that disappears and you get no effect at all but if you if you submit your paper to New England Journal or Jamma or British Medical Journal and you analyze the data and want to take into account basal levels that violates the intent to treat model it will be rejected outright Wow wow so so the vital study is definitely the study that a certain groups are using to to tell people what see it doesn't really work yeah we did the study is definitive like I've challenged the authors of that study to reanalyzer data taking baseline levels into account of their patients and they won't do it Wow incredible and they didn't they even call their the amount of vitamin D they were giving people a high dose at 2000 I use yeah that's nothing So what in perspective I am 73 years old I take 10,000 units of vitamin D a day and I have for years and my level of vitamin D levels are between 80 and 90 nanograms per ml And my personal care physician is pretty progressive she she's all for that not just with me but for her entire entire clinical group of patients that she follows And so she wants her patients to have a minimum level of 60 that's really out there compared to most you know family care physicians or primary care docs In fact they'll get a level back from be at the male clinic or Cleveland clinic or whatever and those levels like my which are 80 or 90 will be flagged is too high right and I get those I get those emails from people all the time Wow it's this level two let's talk about the normals for a second because I think it's a bit of an arbitrary right there's really no agreed upon range definitively right there's different different ideas on it and again a few go back to what's the agreed upon range it's all based on skeleton models right right and in the skeletal models that that's something that we haven't talked about the ranges on those two systems are different. You can maintain a skeletal model on a relatively low amount of spinole say 25 or 30 nanograms or maybe even lower. You can maintain an almost yellow level where the other system requires much higher levels than it the function of normal fashion incredible what are the ranges for the other system other than the bone in the skeletal I'm saying if you want to have cancer prevention or cancer treatment it's so if you're trying to prevent cancer that's one thing if you have active active knee a pleasure that's a different ball grain that's that's farm apology so your levels would be higher but for prevention and optimal functions to me a minimum level would be 50 so 50 to 100 and that's well within the normal physiologic range and sun repeated populations. So if you spend a lot of time when we've looked at this over the years and people life guards are athletes who are outside in the sun and in the summer months or people who live in the tropics who take their levels are routine the 80 90 100 nanograms that is not an abnormal level from human physiology in fact that's what we all are one time. This is incredible data so so you do have prevention then you have the therapeutic dose when someone has a chronic inflammatory condition autoimmune or cancer those levels I would imagine need to be a bit over a hundred. Right yeah or even higher I mean there's a there's an MS protocol in Brazil where this I can't remember the canbaria protocol. Yeah, I'm right. Yeah, he he they those with several hundred thousand there levels are you know five six hundred nanograms for the suppression of MS and it has basis and in fact because vitamin D at those levels who are isn't immune suppressor so. Excuse me it will it will alter the T's that the T cells in the favor of T to away from T one T one are the ones that cause autoimmune attack. And so vitamin D at that at those levels and in some of those people show that those vitamin D at those levels are more effective than to drugs that are prescribed of course vitamin D is free. And so that's what we're going to do. So you know with prostate cancer. We did a study more than ten years ago now where we looked at. The chief of our e-rology department at the medical university of South Carolina where I was on faculty. And another fellow when I went in and talked to him and it was a friend of mine and I said to him I said look we want to do. A study in your pay group of patients on this patients who have active certain elements or watch and wait you know that is so. We you go in to have your prostate your PSA is going up they do a biopsy and and your your prostate cancer is low grade say a decent six so the doctor says to you. Well we'd prefer to really do nothing you know we want to watch and wait which means all people will check back with you in a year see if it's worse. Okay. So we said we want to do a study of this guy's and what we want to do is we at the time every time we did these studies you had to propose how much you are going to give the patient. And so if you go back to this period of time which is in 2005-06 air air some back there we wanted to give them really not as those of 4000 units a day. I would like to give more. But at the time you have to go through an institutional review board and they have to okay it. And so and most of this unfortunately we are in stuff most of the prostate cancer occurs in the I for American population which are really deficient in the. So we approached them and we said we want to do this and we want to give them 4000 units of vitamin D a day. And it was an intervention will try it wasn't a randomized trial but we have a historical data on patients that were in that in that practice. And so we put them on 4000 units a day and we monitor their levels and and then at the end of the year they got a repeat rectal biopsy for like you get for prostate cancer. And we looked at the cell grade and the retention or the how it progressed. And in in 64% the tumors were addressed. Wow. And we submitted this to course new England Journal and they want to nothing to do with it. So we submit it if finally got published in the journal of clinical into trial and end of for now gene that can have a listen which is it was respectable end of for journey. And it really went nowhere. I mean if it would have been a drug company had it would have been worth billions. Yeah. So so when people treat cancer like that like prostate cancer 4000 is nothing I'm seeing take 20,000. You know or more because you got cancer you're not dealing the normal physiology here you and farm ecology. You know and and the push that you get if you try to put these trials well. I give you an example of a study called the Sunshine Study which is a study on non-receptible. Holy cancer. Okay, and run out of parvars and stuff all other. And in in those studies they were they were giving vitamin D prior to giving chemotherapy. And to see if if priming these people with a level of vitamin D prior to giving them chemotherapy had an effect. And so sure enough I mean in the file studies being done but the initial study that was published a couple years ago. After the data was looked at it basically extended the patient's lives by two months. If you primed them with vitamin D. And it was all like 8,000 maybe 10,000 units a day you know which is the time I said to the primary investigator and it's study I said. I don't really really go for like 50,000. No I and it was sponsored I got back as we can't get that through the IRB. I said these people are dot you given them you know really potent team with therapeutic drugs and you're worried about giving them you know vitamin D. Yeah right. They're dying they're not going to survive you're trying to prolong their life. Think you can't even operate them because they're too far along and you're worried they're worried about giving them you know a substantial. And so be that as it's made even if the doses they gave in conjunction with the chemotherapy extended their lives by about two months. And then cancer chemotherapy that's a big deal. Okay drugs are approved on that basis. But it was funny because it was sent to JAMA and it was the initial date of the way it was analyzed by the school public health at Harvard. Showed significance at like 0.035 and then JAMA comes back and says, well we want you to do it this. So do it that way and it comes back at 0.045 or something. And no, no, now we want you to do it this way. So then it comes back at 0.051. And then they say, okay that's good that you gotta say it's it's it's not significant. And we'll publish the article. The only thing that shows up in the news was that vitamin D was not was not significant in progressing in treating the cancer. That's completely false. Well, it's it's not it's if you look at if you look at your level of significance like point difference between 0.05 and 0.51. So that's a that's 50 patients in a thousand versus 51 patients. I mean, it's just to get the it's just to get the term not significant into the article. Holy macro. So so what's saying is all in the time. So what you're saying is there is some slight resistance by these journals. And I'm being very sarcastic. In the major medical journals, there is huge resistance to it. There was an article that just came out in science magazine that showed that vitamin D and the mechanism of how to through the microbiome it regulates colon cancer. And that actually got published. It's very technical, it's very technical, but it shows the mechanism how vitamin D works at at not at an end of the end of the level, but the cell you're level to regulate cancer immunity in in in these patients. Wow. So so as far as the storage of I wasn't the assumption that all this vitamin D gets stored in your fat and then when you need it, the body pulls it out, but that's not that that's not true either. Yeah, fat cycle vitamin goes into your fat when you need it and I've even heard people in the old days say, well, you know, what happens when you have a very after surgery and you have a lot of vitamin D that force in the environment, toxic that was totally ridiculous. I mean, it doesn't it just, you know, it may supply a little bit, but it's not. I mean, maybe enough to to to supply the end of proportion for a while, but it's definitely isn't enough to supply the cellular portion. Because one of one of, I think you even studied, you try to find vitamin D stored and you couldn't find it. Yeah, we looked at we looked at levels and fat so other things are stored as esters like fatty acid esters and fat tissue. So we would dose we would dose even humans and take fat samples, you know, and and work for it. And there was nothing special about that tissue by vitamin D being in there. I mean, there was some in there because it distributes in tissues in general, but it wasn't anything against a gradient where you had just high level of vitamin D in fat tissue. Wow. You also mentioned the relationship between vitamin D and even the endothelial layer and the instead of your arteries becoming a bit leaky. Yeah, so, you know, if you go back several, this wasn't my work, but it happened. It was done by a group of biochemists and in Utah. And what they had, I believe it's called cavernous malformations syndrome where you have these leafy vessels in your brain. It's a, it's a metabolic defect and they leaf fluid and these guys were looking for compounds that would overt or be more therapeutic. So these endothelial vessels wouldn't leak. My coffee machine is turning on here. So that's the noise about that. So anyway, they, they had this system where they ran thousands of compounds through this, to test for this leakage. And, and what they found was they found two compounds, one of which was vitamin D, which they were really disappointed by. Because, you know, a good old vitamin D with a stableizer of endothelial function, meaning stop the leakage. And it was, and the interesting thing there was the parent compound, vitamin D itself was the most potent. Wow, not the other form, but vitamin D itself. So you talked about the ones in supplements who are getting it from the sun. Yeah, the one who were getting from the sun or when you're vitamin supplements was the most potent that's that lower coming is endothelial function. You know, one of the other things that we did in our pediatric work was, and it has to do with human lactation. Yeah. So, you know, when I go back to my graduate school days and I was, you know, I was, you know, not the best student because I always questioned my mentors, you know. And so we were taught, and I was a new nutritional biochemist by training. And in the training, I would, they would teach, well, you know, human milk is the perfect food for the nursing input, except for one thing. They could get rickets if they take it. So you got to give a supplement. I thought that makes a new sense. What's so weird? Right. Why? How could that be? And so, you know, time goes on and we, you know, we do research and it goes to the doctor. And it goes for decades. And finally, we figured out that to overcome this problem, the mothers were taken to little vitamin D by the recommendations that were being made by the different organizations. So, wanting to be could measure the stuff and milk and blood and look at how much was passed into the milk from the blood. And, and it turned out that, that you know, unmercing, woman who's lactated needs to take about 6,000 units a day. The past enough vitamin D in preferred milk to status by her infant. And then the infant doesn't need any, but it doesn't need drops every day. She's getting enough from mother, mother's taken 6,000 units a day. And actually, that has been implemented in pediatric prehistory, to some degree, progressive pediatrician's who hasn't paid for it. So it's an option, instead of giving, instead of giving, the nursing infant 400 units drops because mother's vitamin D is enough to sheet to figure herself. I wonder if this postpartum depression is related to this vitamin D because low vitamin D. It's possible, we look at some of that, but in our studies that we ran in pregnancy, but you know, it's, it's possible, but our numbers, we didn't have enough to really make an assessment if that's true or not. But it's possible, please, vitamin D definitely has a neurodithetics. How does this, this, this idea of vitamin D resistance on top of all these other issues, we have vitamin D resistance, you have the vitamin D receptor, you have certain microbes like that are evolved in Lyme disease, you have, vaccine bar virus that competitively downgrade receptors on top of everything else. Have you looked into that? I have, and I mean, you're a hereditary, there are people who have hereditary resistance because there were receptors are metabotomy and act of, you know, again, it's possible, but to look at those kinds of studies, but to run, first of all, at this point in time, nobody getting any money to run any more vitamin D trials, it's over. Really? Yeah, it's over. You can't, you can't even find a student who would go into somebody's life to study vitamin D metabolism is committing career suicide. And this is just in the US, it's in Britain too. This is the vital study in these articles like scientific, American had totally disseminated vitamin D research. And trials are expensive to run. The government will fund them drug companies don't want them, they don't need a want from them, because they compete with drugs that they don't have a development, such as the drugs for prostate cancer. You have one that's free, that it's pretty good at suppressing prostate cancer. And it doesn't cost anything. You think the pharmaceutical companies want that knowledge out there? It's criminal, totally criminal. Or inviting indeed in preventing preterm birth or complications, there was a drug called McKenna that was 17 hydroxy progesterone, remember the at one? Isn't that for cancer? No, no, this was prevention of preterm birth and pre-election. Okay, it was injectable, I don't know what company made it. It was a small biotech company back in 2010. This company was bought out by a bigger company. It was, they had this one drug, 17 hydroxy progesterone, which was called McKenna. It was approved as a CD approval by the FDA. There was only one problem. It never worked. It was expensive and it was a absolute abject failure. And two years ago, the FDA pulled made them pull it from the market. It was at a progesterone or was it a? It was 17 hydroxy progesterone. You can look at it, you can look at the history of it. So it was doing, they were proposing it did something that biomedicine actually does, which was a properly Vydomine deal, levels can reduce pre-term birth. But it's free. Wow. There's no money in it. No, yes. You also mentioned in one of your videos, it's important to also realize that vitamin D needs magnesium as the co-factor. It does. Yeah, it, you know, I reviewed a lot of papers years ago. And I remember reviewing this one to clearly show that magnesium status was a, was a, a potentiator of improving metabolism, and providing to be within the cells. Meaning it was a simple thing. So people who had better magnesium status also had higher levels of the intermediate form of vitamin D to 25D-4D get measured. And so I myself was taking a, a fair amount of vitamin D, but I really wasn't that satisfied of, of what my blood levels were. And there, and I, I mentioned what people take is very individualistic of how you respond. Some people are really good metabolites. Some people aren't, aren't as good. They need to take a lot more to get their blood levels. You only know what it is that you have tested. And so I started taking magnesium and instantly increased my blood levels by about 40%. And there's no, there's really no way to know if you're magnesium or fleet because it's blood measures don't really tell. So the only way to know it is I take, I think, 400 milligrams a day of magnesium oxide, just the supplement every day. And, and then you know if I didn't get your, your mate make easy and replete for now other reasons, just inside vitamin D. So it's a key cult. It's a what? Key cult factor. Yeah. And in the metabolism of vitamin D. So it interacts the enzyme that activates vitamin D, there's two or three of them need that magnesium is a co-fact. Absolutely. Have you ever done any research on vitamin D in mitochondria? I have it. Well, vitamin, so vitamin D, there's two different enzymes. One of them is located in mitochondria and one of them is located in a microcellents, different cellular components. So that's, that's where that's where these enzymes that activate vitamin D are within cell one of the mitochondria. And one of them is the mitochondria at one end of my presolences. Oh, wow. That's kind of important in the mitochondria as far as I'll have to look where that's what that does or what if it how it influences the mitochondria, which is. So so much of a problem with so many people. If someone takes a higher doses like a large dose of vitamin D3, isn't it? There are some mechanism that it does turn turn into inert compounds. I think it was one was called, um, Tachistorol or Lumestral. Well, those, those are things. Those compounds are made in the skin by sun exposure. It's probably one of the ways that the body regulates how much vitamin D. So if you're, if your tail is a ghost and you go out into somber sun and expose yourself to 20 minutes or so of intense sunlight. On the initial exposure, you'll, you'll make about 20,000 units of vitamin D that will be released into your blood over the next day. Okay, but then you start tanning and that exposure becomes less, you know, you, the next day you'll make less and less and less and less. And that's where the production of these thick chest rolls and, and Lumestrals and all these things are probably, it's just, and. Bouncing the effect of vitamin D made by this time. But in the body, once, once you take vitamin D, I'm not sure it's metabolizing to those things. I think it just disappears, you know, the body will just excrete it through the bioly acid functions and then activate it. But those, what you're mentioning is a control point for the sun solar production of vitamin D in your skin. Okay, and then as far as the. You know, you have hypercalcemia. I think they have exaggerated that a bit, but what's your take on toxic doses and in the research on the talks that you're going to, you know, even people are saying, well, you're taking 10,000, you're going to, you're going to get kidney stones, so like. Really? Well, vitamin D's never been associated in studies with getting kidney stones. Wow, I mean, most kidneys stones are oxalates, I mean, it can, I mean, so if you're taking, if you're worried about kidney stones and vitamin D. And if people are taking high doses, say they're taking 30, 40, 50,000 units for cancer, my first, my recommendation would be limit your dairy intake. Okay, the other thing is that before anything happens in the blood, it happens in the urine first. So if you're worried about high, you know, high blood calcium or ket-2, much vitamin D, you would have your urinary calcium monitor. As long as there's no calcium being dumped into your urine, you don't have a problem. And at 20,000 units, I mean, there are rare genetic defects that would cause vitamin D to become toxic. And one of those is an enzyme that activates vitamin D called the 24 hydroxylase in kidney and other tissues. And if you have a defect in that enzyme, then it's potential you could become toxic, but those are really rare defects. So if we take those out of the picture, how many people really end up getting hypercalcemia from? We never saw one. And our studies that we did in pregnancy and lactation, when I proposed to do these studies, in fact, then you could get, this is an early 2000s. So when we proposed to do these studies in pregnancy and pregnancy is most sensitive for if you can do studies in. So we were proposing in these studies that we were going to, if pregnant women, 4,000 units today, because that's what we calculated they would need to become sufficient. Probably low, but you know, you have to start somewhere. And at the time, 2000 units was the UL, and the upper limit of safety. So we proposed 4,000, and so the granting agency saw, yeah, this branch great, you can't do this, you'll kill people. So we said, no, we won't. And so the funding agency said, will conditionally improve this grant, if you go to the FDA and get an IND number, investigation of drug number. That's a drug companies have to do when they come up with new drugs. We had to do it for vitamin D. Okay, and we did it. We submitted an IND at the late to study by here, and the UL and the FDA branded our IND application. And as a consequence, we had massive monitor. We had monitoring committees. We had to report to the FDA every month. And we never saw an adverse event due to vitamin D supplementation. And a lot of other people used our IND for other things. Other, you know, there are all kinds of studies going on. Never once was an intake to, we saw hypercalcy or hypercalculationary. If we saw that usually was due to something like dehydration, but it was never due to vitamin D supplementation. Incredible. Knowing the importance of vitamin D, like I, it's one of the probably the most important vitamins. How did you stumble on start doing research about vitamin D? Did you know this in advance how important vitamin D was for the body industry? So when I was a graduate student at Ohio State University and at the time I was in agriculture. And my advisor at the time, they were looking at a, in cattle. There's a disease called milk feeders called parturian parisus. And what happens is these dairy cattle are bred to make massive amounts of milk. Okay. Physiologically, it's physiologically, it's not sustainable. And what happens in those cattle is they go through more and more lactations. They become, they can't maintain serum calcium. Once lactation is initiated because they're blood levels of calcium plummet. And it turns out why that happens is they need to mobilize bone calcium. And as they get older and into more and more lactation cycles, it becomes impossible for them to do it. So once they initiate lactation, their blood calcium would drop to four or five and they just keep it over and lay there. Because they're, you know, they're paralyzed. And then the farmer would have to dose them with high doses of calcium and then the cow would stand right up. And then it would fall again the cow would fall down. So and what just happens, it's a big economic loss because, you know, they got to get the cow can't breed anymore. The cow can't make milk. And so they looked at ways to make it better for the cow not to go into this condition. One of the ways was to give them really huge levels of vitamin D to make it stop. And it was successful to some degree, but there were other things that were better. But that's how I got into this. And then I, of course, went more towards human nutrition. And I got what's interested in the milk issue. And I was interacting with people in pediatrics. And, you know, the first grant we came up with, it's interesting. So the first grant back in, while I was talking about the FDA, it was basically a safety study that we were designing to look at. And based around skeleton. At that time, we didn't even know the asked questions about this vitamin D, for the preterm birth and preterm diabetes and all the other stuff. So we ran a study. And when the data were analyzed, this was, this was where it was, it's frowned upon. They said, we analyzed the data and we said, look at this. Vitamin D is preventing preterm birth. And it's really complications of birth. And I presented it at a meeting. It was in 2009. And I mean, the audience went crazy in the wrong way. I mean, I was attacked. I dare you say this, you know, this is, here I see this can't be true. You know, I mean, it was incredible. So when you, when you introduce data like that, you better be prepared to be hammered. Wow. Wow. And then, and then, you know, since that time, it's been basically it shown. There was an article that's in, that was, we did call the, the V-dart study of Harvard. It was done in Scott Wise who was a world renowned as a specialist. And we found out that vitamin D could, if you give enough vitamin D, especially like pre-conception, you could basically eliminate child who they asked about. But no one will, you know, that, you know, the data are clear. If you analyze and we need to appropriate fashion, like as discussed in this town's newsletter article, and even wise China said. And we learned a lot from that. Like we do from all these studies that you need to give more. You need to correct baseline levels. And you could, you know, there would hardly ever be another as, probably there's a child more. If mothers were replete when they conceived. Or even started taking it early. When they found out their pregnant, you know, most of our studies were in the first trimester because that's when they walk in and they figure out their pregnant. You know, you can't, to do pre-conception studies is hugely. But that's when it would be mostly. Because of item of these, especially in the trials we run is mostly missed the first trimester because they don't even want to go and go to their pregnant. So you're only getting the whole of 12 weeks or so. Or maybe later than that. I think it's probably the most important time to eat healthy and get enough nutrition is when you're not born before you're born. Yeah. So incredible. So. Wow. I mean, it leaves us speechless because you, you, you have this knowledge. And, you know, and it's going away because you can't, nobody else can do follow up grants on this anymore. Because when it goes to this, the first of all, the government won't, you know, these studies that we did they cost millions. The vital study was 30, 35 million, maybe more of to me was totally wasted money because it was our studies that we get in pregnancy were probably over the terms of the grants for five or six million dollars to do these clinical studies. And the government isn't going to shallow out that kind of money. The drug companies will pay them not to do it. Incredible. Incredible. So you either accept the data that we have now and I think that people should also not only look at the randomized trial data that we did in the, in the, in the things that were done overseas where you had true vitamin B deficiency, you could do a real randomized trial and now have a compromise by what levels were in these women in the beginning. And, and the, the, the, the other thing in our country is non-compliance of the patients is a serious issue. They don't comply. Oh, yeah, doc. I took the vitamin one, in fact, they've ever took it all. And, and, you know, here's the other thing in the tent to treat. If you know that those people aren't complying, you can't eliminate them for the data analysis. But, no, that violate the intent to treat mine. Wow. Wow. Wow. These are, these are, this is how, this stuff that people don't know. They have no clue unless you're in the research field. So I guess in certain parts of other countries around the world, there's probably maybe places where you, hopefully they'll continue doing vitamin D research. I don't know. Yeah, I mean, you know, like I said, there's stuff still going on in a ran. You know, where, where those countries really have a really big vitamin B deficiency problem because of livestock, women are in bark as they're not allowed to be in the sun. And, so you have an, in places in India the same way. Right. What about Saudi Arabia? Yeah, Saudi Arabia too. I mean, any of the Muslim countries where there, where the, where the females are restricted, have a horrible vitamin D deficiency problem. Well, you got me thinking about that because they, you have compounded by all the diabetes they have. And no son, no vitamin D. Yeah. Incredible. Is there anything else that you want to end off with that you want people to know about? This has just been mind blowing and I'm going to. I think that the only, you're never going to get well, I can't say never because my, like my physician is pretty progressive on all this stuff. So there are physicians that are, but the ones who depend on their professional organizations to recommend patients like the geriatric society like OBGYN, even in, in pediatrics. And if they're only looking at the recommendations come out of their lowest professional societies, which are solely based on reports like the underconsciety like, which just came out with revised recommendations, what's ridiculous? There, again, they, they, they decrease everything that people should be taking. I go back to the Institute of Medicine 2010, which has never been read done. You know, what, you, you have to look at the programs like your own to educate people. And fortification is only done to highly motivated individuals. You know, or supplementation, forifications is a different matter, but it's only government would change. And never, you know, we always sought to get fortification of product higher like milk for vitamin D, but they don't, they don't want to. Now, so, and, and so supplementation is only done, is done by highly motivated individuals. And, and how do you, you know, how do you prove prevention? Right now, you can look at that, you can look at observational retrospective data. And a lot of the data that came out of there, you familiar with this physician's health study at Harvard, run by the Walter Willets group, I mean, has been going since mid-80s. It's health professionals studies. Basically, it was physicians or nurses participated in the study. And every year they give a blood sample, and every year they feel a questionnaire, what happened to you this year? Did you have a heart attack that you get cancer? You know, and then they had a big blood sample, they millions of these samples. And what they do is, then they say, okay, we want to look at this disease related to this compound. And there's going to number those studies done on vitamin D, mostly all positive. And those data are really valuable, okay, because those look at lifestyle over a long period of change, but they're discarded when you, when studies like vital say, as a little BS. Are they still doing that study now? Yes, yes, yes, for health professionals studies still ongoing. Okay, yeah, I think he's, he was involved in what the planetary health diet, the new planetary health diet. Yeah, oh yeah, well it was involved in everything. The most cited scientist in the history of science in the incredible, I know Walter, well, I've been erected with him in the past quite a bit on this stuff. He definitely gets a lot of funding, but that study, that, that, that, that those health professionals studies were goldmine. I mean, extraordinary value. You know, not a randomized trial, but there's a lot of data in there that should be paid, the attention should be paid attention to. Yeah, well, I'm sure we'll get published if vitamin D is not favorable. Wow, this has been incredible. Thank you so much for taking your time to do this. You're welcome. I'm going to put that link down below of that article from the Townsend Report, everyone can check it out, but thank you so much.