Hello, Dr. Berg here, and today we're going to talk about the number one vitamin D danger that you absolutely positively must know more about. A lot of the research that I'm talking about is based on Dr. Coemberg from Brazil who studied autoimmune diseases for quite some time and he has the Coemberg protocol where uses a lot of vitamin D. For some people could range between 60,000 I use per day up to 200,000 I use vitamin D3 every day to penetrate through this resistance and to create the effect to put these autoimmune conditions back in remission. And his success level is like over 90%. If you look at your vitamin D levels and you're assuming like, oh yeah, my levels are fine because my blood levels are fine. Don't assume that's really what's going on deeper in the cells. There is some better ways to know if vitamin D is working. I am going to get to that, but the blood level only gives you a little bit of information. Is it dangerous to take too much vitamin D? It can be especially with hypercalcemia, too much calcium in your blood, which can lead to kidney stones. On the flip side, what are the dangers of not having enough vitamin D3 that makes you more susceptible to autoimmune diseases? Autoimmune diseases are the number one health problem on planet earth right now. Talking about MS, graves, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, butlego, which is a skin problem. And Hashimoto's is at the top list. That is a hypothyroid condition. Your own body is attacking itself. That part of the immune system is heavily influenced by the amount of vitamin D that you have in your body. Actually, in your cells, most of the research, the doctors have studied about vitamin D is completely outdated like 100 years old. Fairly recently, on the time schedule of things, we found out that vitamin D is involved in over 2500 genes. That's a lot of different genes, a lot of different functions. And it's especially intimately involved in every part of your immune system. So the amount of vitamin D that you need for the immune system to keep that maintained is between 8,000 and 10,000 I use. Next one is vitamin D resistance. Just when you thought it was bad, it gets a little bit worse. Most people cannot get enough vitamin D from the sun or the food like they should. There's some resistance to this layer. The primary area is through the genetics. You can look through your DNA. And you can actually see if there's a problem with a certain gene that puts you at risk for a very specific autoimmune disease. A lot of people genetically are not getting this vitamin D. And top of the other issue of low RDAs. You also have other things that can affect the absorption of vitamin D, low magnesium, low zinc, low vitamin K2, and also certain viruses, downgrade your vitamin D receptors. And now you don't have the defenses anymore. It can then go around the body and do it staying without being attacked by your immune system. Let's just take you and put you in Stone Age. You need to protect yourself against parasites, bacteria, viruses. A lot more than you would now because you're out there in the wild and you're probably drinking the water. Your immune system had to develop to deal with all this stuff. You also were getting a lot of sun. When we're suned, then you get now. So the body had to regulate this amount of UV radiation by shutting down some of the genes. So you didn't get too much. Back in the Stone Age, there was a purpose of survival. Let's move you to present time to modern time right now. You probably are not drinking out of your local pond down the street. But I'll guarantee you're not getting near the amount of sun that you got way back in the day. Which means you're not getting near the amount of vitamin D you used to get. The way that you can correct these inflammatory genes is to be far your vitamin D levels. There's several things that you can do to lessen this problem to take more magnesium. Take vitamin K2. Take zinc. And also you can limit your amount of calcium cutting out the dairy. Right there, you're going to put the person in a protection mode against hypercalcime. If you just do that. So there are all sorts of ways to prevent the side effects or the toxic effect by the vitamin D. I'm going to put a link down below of several doctors that kind of specialize in this if you wanted to work with someone to really do the protocol. If you have some serious autoimmune disease that you need help with, you need a consultation from a doctor who's trained from doctor-colymbary. But at least want to give you the data of what they're going to be doing. Since we're talking about doctor Coembray, I did an amazing interview with him personally. So I'd put it up right here. Watch it right now. I think you're going to love it. I'd be free to leave. I just wanted to give you a little quick history on some of the books that I wrote. This was one of the first books that called Dr. Berg Body Shapes. It was my attempt at writing about body types. What was very interesting about this book is I actually did all the images myself don't ask me why. They look actually not quite as professional as some of the images that I have in the new book. But anyway, this is my first attempt right here called Dr. Berg's Body Shaped Diet. Then I wrote a book more extensive called the seven principles of fabric. I don't even have a copy anymore. Actually, because it's outdated. The next book I put about 1,000 hours into this one right here called the new body type guide. Major updates on the body types. I put a lot of energy into this. It has professional images, graphics, all sorts of things. Now the problem with this book is it doesn't really describe what this is really about. Body types are only a small portion of what's in this book. That's why I changed the name to the healthy keto plan. If you happen to have this book, you don't really need this book because there's only very, very minor updates. But if you don't have this, you need to get this one right here. This book goes into every single detail that you would ever want to know about. It goes into the seven principles of fabric. It goes into hormones, the body types, the basic keto plan. It goes into the intermittent fasting. I talk about the 10 fat burning triggers and blockers in fabricing strategies with a lot of details in every single chapter. I go into body issues that interfere with losing weight. There's very few people that just have a way problem. They have a lot of body issues, whether it's sleeping problems, stress problems, inflammation, menopause. I cover that extensively in this book. Then I talk about how to get rid of stress and I show you a technique. Then I get into exercising. And then I have a lot of really good recipes in this book as well. So this is a good reference guide. On my website, if you get this book, you get this one free. It's called Healthy Keto in Immethan fasting. This is the shortcut, a quick guide to this book. The reason I created this book is to have you within 45 minutes, learn how to do keto, in intermittent fasting. Exactly what you need to do. Then you can fill in the blanks with this book right here. So right now I'm doing a special if you get this book, you get this one totally free. Or you can go to Amazon and get these individually. So I just want to clarify the difference between this book and this updated one right here. If you don't have this, you need to get this right here. That way you can get the exact correct information to do it healthily.