於是外hemense 於是於是於是於是於是於是於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於是於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於於Animal has the ability to make vitamin Cand they require a tremendous amount of vitamin C when they're stressed but humans don't make vitamin C Humans lost their ability to make vitamin C I'm going to explain a theory that I have on why that is in a little bit but we are completely dependent on getting vitamin C from our food so I did a test in vitamin C and I actually was very, very deficient and I was shocked that I was deficient because I consume a lot of foods with vitamin C In fact, I consume a lot of sour crowd and in my test it showed that I was very deficient and I'm like, how can this be? One thing I was doing at that time is that I was exercising like crazy I was overtraining, creating more stress to my body and just sucking up all this vitamin C from my diet, creating a deficiency so vitamin C deficiency doesn't just come from your foods it can come from stress like over-exercise and here's something else that people don't realize 90% of the vitamin C used in supplements is completely synthetic. It's called industrial vitamin C. It's made from corn sugar in factories, mostly overseas and I won't tell the country that most of it comes from China but it's super cheap. You can buy 2,000 pounds of synthetic vitamin C for under $3,000. Now what would that actually come out to per bottle of synthetic vitamin C? Well, it comes out to only 30 cents a bottle so when you see a bottle of vitamin C at the store for like $5 or $10,000, it's purely synthetic and they're making a huge mark up. Even now it's cheap, you are getting a synthesized industrial version of vitamin C. In nature, vitamin C comes as a complex with many different parts it doesn't just come as an ascorbic acid antioxidant and if you're going to get vitamin C, read the labels, make sure it doesn't have ascorbic acid, make sure it comes from actual food complexes, okay? Not just one individual synthetic chemical. The other interesting thing about vitamin C is the chemistry of vitamin C. It's shaped very similar to sugar. In fact, vitamin C uses the same doors to get in your cells as sugar does. This means if you're eating sugar or have high blood sugar as a diabetes, that sugar or glucose is going to compete for vitamin C and it's going to win over the vitamin C. So you're not going to be able to absorb vitamin C. This is why a lot of diabetics or people that consume a lot of carbohydrates are nearly always deficient of vitamin C. Now I want to also explain why people are fatigued if they're deficient of vitamin C. It's because vitamin C supports the mitochondrial and the energy factory of the cells, helping handle stress, helping recycle other antideoxidants, helping you absorb iron so you can get more oxygen in your blood. There's some fat-syname things about vitamin C in oxygen which I'm going to get into very soon. But when you're vitamin C as low, your energy factory is due not burn fuel very efficiently. And this is why someone's tired, weak, foggy, they can't recover and they have low endurance. In fact, let's talk about the oxygen connection right now. And this is something that most people probably have never heard about vitamin C. Vitamin C helps your cells respond properly to oxygen. Your cells have this little oxygen alarm system that activates when you're low in oxygen. And when your cells are low in oxygen, there's a sensor that tells the body to make more vitamin C. When you're low in vitamin C, your cells will be suffocating because they're not going to have enough oxygen. Realize also, when I talk about lack of oxygen, I'm also talking about inflammation because anywhere in your body that you have inflammation, you will also have low oxygen. And in states of inflammation, and low oxygen, you're going to have stress in that tissue. People that don't have enough oxygen when they're exercising will not have endurance. Also relating to scurvy, people think that scurvy is bleeding gums and loose teeth. But scurvy is the end stage of a severe vitamin C deficiency. The real problem in modern day is something called a subclinical scurvy, which is not a full-blown end stage, but it's definitely a deficiency of vitamin C. And what would that look like? That looks more like slow healing. You bruise easily. You have frequent infections, chronic fatigue, chronic inflammation. So you don't actually have to have bleeding gums or loose teeth. To have scurvy. But I will say this, sometimes I'll see people with like really red gums. They're gums bleed easily when they brush their teeth. That is a major vitamin C deficiency. So if you see that, just tell the person they need to up their vitamin C. Now, where do people get vitamin C? Orange is not the highest source. There's many other foods that have much higher amounts of vitamin C than oranges. Like bell peppers, papaya, and sour crowd. It has to be raw, okay? Not pasteurized. So you're usually going to get it in the refrigerated section. But before I get into deeply, I want to come back to that orange juice. Realize that heat and oxygen exposure lower the vitamin C. So as in pasteurized orange juice, which is most orange juice. So when you're buying this orange juice from the grocery store, and thinking you're getting any vitamin C, you might want to think twice. And so if they claim that it's a good source of vitamin C, just look in the back of the label. And you're usually going to see, they're going to add vitamin C. But really are they adding vitamin C, or they're just adding some industrial scorebook acid, and making you think that it's legitimate vitamin C. Okay, let's get back to the sour crowd. Okay, fermented vegetables, especially sour crowd, are low to a vitamin C. Kim Chii also has a lot of vitamin C. Your bacteria don't make vitamin C, but they protect it. They help stabilize the vitamin C. And so the reason why there's so much vitamin C is it concentrates the vitamin C. So when you consume it, it's a very good, bio-available source of vitamin C. And if you think about our modern environment, right? We have high sugar, high stress, high amounts of inflammation, low amounts of real vitamin C, and our diet, all of this equals lower amounts of vitamin C. So a couple recommendations for vitamin C. Number one, make sure you get it from your diet. I would consume more fermented vegetables, like sour crowd, at least half a cup each day. That would actually give you tremendous vitamin C. Bell peppers are another great way to get vitamin C. But more importantly, cut out the things that block vitamin C, like the added stress, the sugar, go on a low carb diet. Super important. And the more stress you go through and the more exercise you do, the more vitamin C you should consume to compensate for that.